---
title: Northwest Passage
layout: post
category: rejsy
keywords: NWP, Northwest Passage, Arctic, ecology, global warming
desc: The information about planed crossing of Northwest Passage on s/y JoinUs
---

Arctic is melting so we race the yacht to save it.
---------------------------------------------------

**Our aim is to cross the Northwest Passage with the lowest fossil fuel burn possible during one season. We want to bring 
more attention to the climate changes and its implications and increase awareness of the alternative, ‘green’ ways of power 
the smaller yachts among sailors and the yachts industry.**
The Arctic is melting and the climate changes we are facing will impact everyone. New technologies and communication means 
make the Northwest Passage sailing more possible than ever before. It’s happening not only just due to the technology; 
the Arctic sea ice is melting opening new passages and making people to dream about new opportunities for shipping, 
industries and competitors in less icy Arctic. It’s happening due to the global warming. The number of transits increased 
from 4 per year in the 1980s to 20-30 per year in 2009-2013. Thirty-two percent of the ships making transits were small 
vessels – adventurers<sup>[i]</sup>. There is no serious doubt about the basic cause of the warming. It is the result of an increase 
in heat-trapping atmospheric gases, mainly carbon dioxide released when fossil fuels are burned. **The same fuel which is 
burn on the sailing yachts!**
Solar panels, water and wind generators are widely used on all type of super yachts and big cruisers to reduce the amount 
of fossil fuels burn. However, for some reason, **adventures on smaller sailing vessels keep thinking that old fashioned 
diesel engine is the only reliable drive**. Our aim is to change this believe. It’s kind of ironic, isn’t it? Those who sail 
in the high latitude can often understand the unique beauty of the region and its irreplaceable character are those 
who contribute to the climate change by burning significant amount of fossil fuels to power their sailing yachts.
 
The yacht and how we want to do it.
-----------------------------------

s/y JoinUs is a steal Bruce Roberts NY46 suitable to sail in the Arctic. We sailed on her around Svalbard, Greenland 
and Island in 2015 and 2016. It’s equipped with the solar panels and wind generator as well as LED lights that reduce 
energy expense and fuel amount needed to produce it.
We keep working to modify her further before the expedition in 2018. We want to add a hybrid engine and water energy 
generator to considerably reduce diesel use. She requires a lot of effort and work to meet our aim so we need your help. 

We hope we can find more allies to help us fulfil the dream of crossing the Northwest Passage in a completely new, greener 
way and to help saving the Arctic for us and further generations. We hope you are one of them.

<sup>[i]</sup> http://www.enr.gov.nt.ca/state-environment/73-trends-shipping-northwest-passage-and-beaufort-sea


